In this video, I'd like to
start to talk about clustering. This will be exciting, because this is our
first unsupervised learning algorithm, where we learn from unlabeled
data instead from labelled data. So, what is unsupervised learning? I briefly talked about unsupervised
learning at the beginning of the class but it's useful to contrast it
with supervised learning. So, here's a typical supervised
learning problem where we're given a labeled training set and the goal is to
find the decision boundary that separates the positive label examples and
the negative label examples. So, the supervised learning problem in
this case is given a set of labels to fit a hypothesis to it. In contrast,
in the unsupervised learning problem we're given data that does not have
any labels associated with it. So, we're given data that looks like this. Here's a set of points add in no labels,
and so, our training set is written just x1, x2, and so on up to
x m and we don't get any labels y. And that's why the points plotted up on
the figure don't have any labels with them. So, in unsupervised learning what
we do is we give this sort of unlabeled training set to an algorithm and we just ask the algorithm find
some structure in the data for us. Given this data set one type of structure
we might have an algorithm find is that it looks like this data set has points
grouped into two separate clusters and so an algorithm that finds clusters like the ones I've just circled
is called a clustering algorithm. And this would be our first
type of unsupervised learning, although there will be other types of
unsupervised learning algorithms that we'll talk about later that finds
other types of structure or other types of patterns in
the data other than clusters. We'll talk about this after
we've talked about clustering. So, what is clustering good for? Early in this class I already
mentioned a few applications. One is market segmentation where you
may have a database of customers and want to group them into
different marker segments so you can sell to them separately or serve
your different market segments better. Social network analysis. There are actually groups have
done this things like looking at a group of people's social networks. So, things like Facebook,
Google+, or maybe information about who other people that you email
the most frequently and who are the people that they email the most frequently and
to find coherence in groups of people. So, this would be another maybe clustering
algorithm where you know want to find who are the coherent groups of
friends in the social network? Here's something that one of my friends
actually worked on which is, use clustering to organize computer clusters
or to organize data centers better. Because if you know which computers in the
data center in the cluster tend to work together, you can use that to
reorganize your resources and how you layout the network and how you
design your data center communications. And lastly, something that actually
another friend worked on using clustering algorithms to
understand galaxy formation and using that to understand
astronomical data. So, that's clustering which is our
first example of an unsupervised learning algorithm. In the next video we'll start to talk
about a specific clustering algorithm.