In this next set of videos, I would like to tell you about recommender systems. There are two reasons, I had two motivations for why I wanted to talk about recommender systems. The first is just that it is an important application of machine learning. Over the last few years, occasionally I visit different, you know, technology companies here in Silicon Valley and I often talk to people working on machine learning applications there and so I've asked people what are the most important applications of machine learning or what are the machine learning applications that you would most like to get an improvement in the performance of. And one of the most frequent answers I heard was that there are many groups out in Silicon Valley now, trying to build better recommender systems. So, if you think about what the websites are like Amazon, or what Netflix or what eBay, or what iTunes Genius, made by Apple does, there are many websites or systems that try to recommend new products to use. So, Amazon recommends new books to you, Netflix try to recommend new movies to you, and so on. And these sorts of recommender systems, that look at what books you may have purchased in the past, or what movies you have rated in the past, but these are the systems that are responsible for today, a substantial fraction of Amazon's revenue and for a company like Netflix, the recommendations that they make to the users is also responsible for a substantial fraction of the movies watched by their users. 
And so an improvement in performance of a recommender system can have a substantial and immediate impact on the bottom line of many of these companies. Recommender systems is kind of a funny problem, within academic machine learning so that we could go to an academic machine learning conference, the problem of recommender systems, actually receives relatively little attention, or at least it's sort of a smaller fraction of what goes on within Academia. But if you look at what's happening, many technology companies, the ability to build these systems seems to be a high priority for many companies. And that's one of the reasons why I want to talk about them in this class. The second reason that I want to talk about recommender systems is that as we approach the last few sets of videos of this class I wanted to talk about a few of the big ideas in machine learning and share with you, you know, some of the big ideas in machine learning. And we've already seen in this class that features are important for machine learning, the features you choose will have a big effect on the performance of your learning algorithm. So there's this big idea in machine learning, which is that for some problems, maybe not all problems, but some problems, there are algorithms that can try to automatically learn a good set of features for you. So rather than trying to hand design, or hand code the features, which is mostly what we've been doing so far, there are a few settings where you might be able to have an algorithm, just to learn what feature to use, and the recommender systems is just one example of that sort of setting. There are many others, but engraved through recommender systems, will be able to go a little bit into this idea of learning the features and you'll be able to see at least one example of this, I think, big idea in machine learning as well. So, without further ado, let's get started, and talk about the recommender system problem formulation. As my running example, I'm going to use the modern problem of predicting movie ratings. So, here's a problem. Imagine that you're a website or a company that sells or rents out movies, or what have you. And so, you know, Amazon, and Netflix, and I think iTunes are all examples of companies that do this, and let's say you let your users rate different movies, using a 1 to 5 star rating. So, users may, you know, something one, two, three, four or five stars. In order to make this example just a little bit nicer, I'm going to allow 0 to 5 stars as well, because that just makes some of the math come out just nicer. Although most of these websites use the 1 to 5 star scale. So here, I have 5 movies. You know, Love That Lasts, Romance Forever, Cute Puppies of Love, Nonstop Car Chases, and Swords vs. Karate. And we have 4 users, which, calling, you know, Alice, Bob, Carol, and Dave, with initials A, B, C, and D, we'll call them users 1, 2, 3, and 4. So, let's say Alice really likes Love That Lasts and rates that 5 stars, likes Romance Forever, rates it 5 stars. She did not watch Cute Puppies of Love, and did rate it, so we don't have a rating for that, and Alice really did not like Nonstop Car Chases or Swords vs. Karate. And a different user Bob, user two, maybe rated a different set of movies, maybe she likes to Love at Last, did not to watch Romance Forever, just have a rating of 4, a 0, a 0, and maybe our 3rd user, rates this 0, did not watch that one, 0, 5, 5, and, you know, let's just fill in some of the numbers. And so just to introduce a bit of notation, this notation that we'll be using throughout, I'm going to use NU to denote the number of users. So in this example, NU will be equal to 4. So the u-subscript stands for users and Nm, going to use to denote the number of movies, so here I have five movies so Nm equals equals 5. And you know for this example, I have for this example, I have loosely 3 maybe romantic or romantic comedy movies and 2 action movies and you know, if you look at this small example, it looks like Alice and Bob are giving high ratings to these romantic comedies or movies about love, and giving very low ratings about the action movies, and for Carol and Dave, it's the opposite, right? Carol and Dave, users three and four, really like the action movies and give them high ratings, but don't like the romance and love- type movies as much. Specifically, in the recommender system problem, we are given the following data. Our data comprises the following: we have these values r(i, j), and r(i, j) is 1 if user J has rated movie I. So our users rate only some of the movies, and so, you know, we don't have ratings for those movies. And whenever r(i, j) is equal to 1, whenever user j has rated movie i, we also get this number y(i, j), which is the rating given by user j to movie i. And so, y(i, j) would be a number from zero to five, depending on the star rating, zero to five stars that user gave that particular movie. So, the recommender system problem is given this data that has give these r(i, j)'s and the y(i, j)'s to look through the data and look at all the movie ratings that are missing and to try to predict what these values of the question marks should be. In the particular example, I have a very small number of movies and a very small number of users and so most users have rated most movies but in the realistic settings your users each of your users may have rated only a minuscule fraction of your movies but looking at this data, you know, if Alice and Bob both like the romantic movies maybe we think that Alice would have given this a five. Maybe we think Bob would have given this a 4.5 or some high value, as we think maybe Carol and Dave were doing these very low ratings. And Dave, well, if Dave really likes action movies, maybe he would have given Swords and Karate a 4 rating or maybe a 5 rating, okay? And so, our job in developing a recommender system is to come up with a learning algorithm that can automatically go fill in these missing values for us so that we can look at, say, the movies that the user has not yet watched, and recommend new movies to that user to watch. You try to predict what else might be interesting to a user. So that's the formalism of the recommender system problem. In the next video we'll start to develop a learning algorithm to address this problem.