Let's load the diabetes
dataset from scikit-learn. To visualize the dataset,
we use Macro List scatter plot. The training data points
are colored black, and the test data points are colored red. The x-axis denotes the input features,
and the y-axis denotes the response. As you can see,
the response values are between 0 and 400. Our goal here is to train a linear
regression model which attempts to find a line somewhere here. Which we can then use to
predict the response value which is this given the input features. In data cell, we'll denote the slope
of this line by the V W and the intercept with biased B. Before we dive into
the linear regression code, let's look at a couple of preliminaries. The built-in function solve computes
the least squares solution, Ax = b, such that the norm,
Ax- b, is minimized. It is important to note that
this function can operate only on small to medium
sized input matrix. Linear regression model assumes
that the relationship between input feature and
the response variable is linear. The goal, then, is to estimate
the regression coefficient w. We use the square loss,
given here differentiating the loss with respect to w,
we get this expression. We set this expression to 0 and
we arrive at the expression given here. The expression here can be computed
using solve built in function, where A is x is transpose x and
b is x transpose y. The dml script for
linear regression done as simply a solve function,
by first setting a and b. Setting a to x transpose x,
and b to x transpose y. Since we don't know whether the line
passes through the origin, we add a bias. This is done by first appending and
solve it all ones, using cbind function. For training,
we need to pass the values for the variables x and
y using the input method. In this case, x is the NumPy matrix,
diabetes_x_train, and y is the NumPy matrix,
diabetes_y_train. Since we want to find the line with
the slope w and intercept bias, we mark the WM bias as output and
we get democratic seclusion. Now that we have WM bias
let's plot the line on our scikit scatter plot which is this.