In this video, I'd like to show you
a fun and historically important example of neural networks learning of using
a neural network for autonomous driving. That is getting a car to
learn to drive itself. The video that I'll showed a minute
was something that I'd gotten from Dean Pomerleau, who was a colleague who
works out in Carnegie Mellon University out on the east coast
of the United States. And in part of the video you
see visualizations like this. And I want to tell what a visualization
looks like before starting the video. Down here on the lower left is the view
seen by the car of what's in front of it. And so here you kinda see a road that's
maybe going a bit to the left, and then going a little bit to the right. And up here on top, this first horizontal bar shows the
direction selected by the human driver. And this location of this bright white
band that shows the steering direction selected by the human driver where you
know here far to the left corresponds to steering hard left, here corresponds
to steering hard to the right. And so this location which is a little bit
to the left, a little bit left of center means that the human driver at this
point was steering slightly to the left. And this second bot here corresponds
to the steering direction selected by the learning algorithm and again the location of this sort of white
band means that the neural network was here selecting a steering direction
that's slightly to the left. And in fact before the neural
network starts leaning initially, you see that the network outputs
a grey band, like a grey, like a uniform grey band throughout this
region and sort of a uniform gray fuzz corresponds to the neural network
having been randomly initialized. And initially having no
idea how to drive the car. Or initially having no idea of
what direction to steer in. And is only after it has learned for a while, that will then start to output
like a solid white band in just a small part of the region corresponding to
choosing a particular steering direction. And that corresponds to when the neural
network becomes more confident in selecting a band in
one particular location, rather than outputting a sort of light
gray fuzz, but instead outputting a white band that's more constantly
selecting one's steering direction. >> ALVINN is a system of
artificial neural networks that learns to steer by
watching a person drive. ALVINN is designed to
control the NAVLAB 2, a modified Army Humvee who
had put sensors, computers, and actuators for
autonomous navigation experiments. The initial step in configuring ALVINN
is creating a network just here. During training, a person drives
the vehicle while ALVINN watches. Once every two seconds, ALVINN digitizes
a video image of the road ahead, and records the person's steering direction. This training image is reduced in
resolution to 30 by 32 pixels and provided as input to ALVINN's
three layered network. Using the back propagation learning
algorithm,ALVINN is training to output the same steering direction as
the human driver for that image. Initially the network
steering response is random. After about two minutes of training
the network learns to accurately imitate the steering reactions
of the human driver. This same training procedure is
repeated for other road types. After the networks have been trained
the operator pushes the run switch and ALVINN begins driving. Twelve times per second,
ALVINN digitizes the image and feeds it to its neural networks. Each network, running in parallel,
produces a steering direction, and a measure of its'
confidence in its' response. The steering direction,
from the most confident network, in this network training for the one lane
road, is used to control the vehicle. Suddenly an intersection
appears ahead of the vehicle. As the vehicle approaches the intersection
the confidence of the lone lane network decreases. As it crosses the intersection and
the two lane road ahead comes into view, the confidence of the two
lane network rises. When its' confidence rises the two
lane network is selected to steer. Safely guiding the vehicle into
its lane onto the two lane road. >> So that was autonomous driving
using the neural network. Of course there are more recently more
modern attempts to do autonomous driving. There are few projects in the US and
Europe and so on, that are giving more robust
driving controllers than this, but I think it's still pretty remarkable and
pretty amazing how instant neural network trained with backpropagation can actually
learn to drive a car somewhat well.