Welcome back. Today, we are going to discuss a very important topic which is the Batch-size. As we earlier have discussed, we use batches to train LSTMs. But now, which batch-size to select? So, what could it be? It could be one, or probably six, or 12, or 64, or 100. What is the optimum? This is a very important decision because as you will see and especially in the programming assignments, you are going to see how strongly it impacts the prediction accuracy. Now, just imagine you don't know nothing about this world, you would like to learn what the bird is. So, how to distinguish a bird from all other animals or all other things which you are seeing around you. And you learned that as a child like you have never seen a bird. So now, you are shown images of birds, and there are two modes how can you learn. For example, this is just example, just a game. And the first mode you will be presented one image at the time. So you see one image, one bird image, then you make your notes, you identify special bird qualities, and this is what this meaning setting weights. So, you are actually weighting some properties as very important for a bird like intrinsic properties, or you'll say, "Okay. This is property common for other things, so it's not a bird special." So, you'll see one image of a bird, make your notes, then you see another image, and another image, and another image. Another mode would be, you will be presented several images at a time. Let's say, five, not too much, maybe 10. And then you see all those 10 images, and you are going immediately recognize some similarities between those creatures. You're going to see that they have feathers, and so on, and so on at one time. So, you have all those samples and you can compare, and you can learn much faster, and much more efficient. This is for humans. And as by our experience, is this similar to machines especially for such networks as LSTMs, also for CNN's for convolutional neural networks. It is important to provide a batch-size which is for the machine optimal to learn the underlying pattern. And as by our experience, a batch-size is around 60 to 80 are in most cases optimal. And therefore, we're going to select a batch-size of 64. It doesn't have to be 64 or 62, just common to select such numbers like 32, and so on divided by eight. It's not imperative but, okay. So, we're going to select the batch of size 64. And later on, we will see in programming assignments what is going to happen if you use batch of size six, for example. This is interesting. First of all, you will see that the performance if you train your neural network, you will see it will take much more time. But is it impacting the performance positively or negatively? You are going to figure out in your programming assignments. So, stay tuned, until the next time. Bye bye.